(Music) I remember that morning going to
the lab and I was thinking this is it, this is the last Jeopardy game.
It became real to me when the music played and Johnny Gilbert said
from IBM Research in Yorktown Heights, New York, this is Jeopardy and I just went.
Hear it is one day. This is the culmination of all this work.
To be honest with you I was emotional. Watson.
What is Shoe? You are right.
We actually took the lead. We were ahead of them,
but then we start getting some questions wrong. Watson?
What is Leg? No, I'm sorry. I can't accept that.
What is 1920's? No.
What is Chic? No, sorry, Brad.
What is Class? Class.
You got it. Watson. What is Sauron?
Sauron is right and that puts you into a tie for the lead with Brad.
The double Jeopardy round of the first game I thought was phenomenal.
Watson went on a terror. Watson, who is Franz List?
You are right. What is Violin?
Who is the Church Lady? Yes. Watson.
What is Narcolepsy? You are right and with that you move to $36,681.
Now, we come to Watson. Who is Bram Stoker and the wager, hello
$17,973 and a two day total of $77,147. We won Jeopardy.
They are very justifiably proud of what they've done.
I would've thought that technology like this was years away
but it's here now. I have the bruised ego to prove it.
I think we saw something important today. Wow, wait a second. This is history.
The 60th Annual Grammy Awards, powered by IBM Watson.
There's a tremendous amount of unstructured data
that we process on Grammy Sunday. Our partnership with the recording Academy
really is focused on helping them with some of
their workflows for their digital production. My content team is responsible not
only for taking all this raw stuff that's coming in,
but curating it and publishing it. You're talking about five hours of
red carpet coverage with 5,000 artists, making that trip down the carpet
with a 100,000 photos being shot. For the last five hours,
Watson has been using AI to analyze the colors, patterns, and silhouettes of
every single outfit that has passed through. So we've been able to see all the dominant
styles and compare them to Grammy shows in the past.
Watson's also analyzing the emotions of Grammy nominated song lyrics over the last
60 years. Get this, it can actually identify
the emotional themes in music and categorize them as joy,
sadness, and everything else in between. It's very cool.
Fantasy sports are an incredibly important and fun way that we serve sports
fans. Our fantasy games drive
tremendous consumption across ESPN digital properties,
and they drive tune-in to our events and studio shows.
But our users have a lot of different ways they can spend their time.
So we have to continuously improve our game so they choose to spend that time with us.
This year, ESPN teamed up with IBM to add a powerful new feature
to their fantasy football platform. Fantasy football generates a huge volume of
content - articles, blogs, videos, podcasts.
We call it unstructured data - data that doesn't fit neatly
into spreadsheets or databases. Watson was built to analyze that kind of
information and turn it into usable insights. We train Watson on millions of fantasy football
stories, blog posts, and videos.
We taught it to develop a scoring range for thousands of players,
their upsides and their downsides, and we taught it to estimate the chances of
player will exceed their upside or fall below the downside.
Watson even assesses a player's media buzz and their likelihood to play.
This is a big win for our fantasy football players.
It's one more tool to help them decide which running back or QB to start each week.
It's a great complement to the award-winning analysts our fans rely on.
As with any Machine Learning, the system gets smarter all the time.
That means the insights are better, which means are you just can make better decisions
and have a better chance to win their matchup every week.
The more successful our fantasy players are, the more time they'll spend with us.
The ESPN and IBM partnership is a great vehicle to demonstrate
the power of enterprise-grade AI to millions of people,
and it's not hard to see how the same technology applies to real life.
There are thousands of business scenarios where
you're assessing value and making trade-offs. This is what the future of
decision-making is going to look like. Man and machine working together,
assessing risk and reward, working through difficult decisions.
This is the same technology IBM uses to help doctors mine millions of
pages of medical research and investment banks fund market moving insights. (Music)


Lesson Summary
In this lesson, you have learned:

AI-powered applications are creating an impact in diverse areas such as Healthcare, Education, Transcription, Law Enforcement, Customer Service, Mobile and Social Media Apps, Financial Fraud Prevention, Patient Diagnoses, Clinical Trials, and more.

Some of these applications include:

Robotics and Automation, where AI is making it possible for robots to perceive unpredictable environments around them in order to decide on the next steps.
Airport Security, where AI is making it possible for X-ray scanners to flag images that may look suspicious.
Oil and Gas, where AI is helping companies analyze and classify thousands of rock samples to help identify the best locations to drill for oil?  
Some famous applications of AI from IBM include:

Watson playing Jeopardy to win against two of its greatest champions, Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter.
Watson teaming up with the Academy to deliver an amplified Grammy experience for millions of fans.
Watson collaborating with ESPN to serve 10 million users of the ESPN Fantasy App sharing insights that help them make better decisions to win their weekly matchups.