[MUSIC] Can you tell us a little bit about the
work you're doing with self-driving cars. >> I've been working on self-driving
cars for the last few years. It's a domain that's exploded,
obviously, in interest since early competitions back
in the 2005 domain. And what we've been working on
really is putting together our own self-driving vehicle that was
able to drive on public roads in the regional Waterloo last August. With the self-driving cars area, one of our key research domains
is in 3D object detection. So this remains a challenging task for
algorithms to perform automatically. Trying to identify every vehicle,
every pedestrian, every sign that's in
a driving environment. So that the vehicle can make the correct
decisions about how it should move and interact with those vehicles. And so we work extensively on
how we take in laser data and vision data and radar data. And then fuse that into a complete
view of the world around the vehicle. >> When we think of computer vision, we usually think immediately of
self-driving cars, and why is that? Well, it's because it's hard to pay
attention when driving on the road, right? You can't both be looking
at your smartphone and also be looking at
the road at the same time. Of course, it's sometimes hard to predict
what people are going to be doing on the street, as well. When they're crossing the street with
their bike or skateboard, or whatnot. So it's great when we have some sort
of camera or sensor that can help us detect these things and prevent accidents
before they could potentially occur. And that's one of the limitations of human
vision, is attention, is visual attention. So I could be looking at you, Rav, but behind you could be this
delicious slice of pizza. But I can only pay attention to one or just some limited number
of things at a time. But I can't attend to everything in my
visual field all at once at the same time like a camera could. Or like how computer vision
could potentially do so. And so that's one of the great things that
cameras and computer vision is good for. Helping us pay attention to the whole
world around us without having us to look around and make sure that we're
paying attention to everything. And that's just in self-driving cars, so I
think we all kind of have a good sense of how AI and computer vision shapes
the driving and transportation industry. >> Well, self-driving cars
are certainly the future. And there's tremendous interest
right now in self-driving vehicles. In part because of their
potential to really change the way our society works and operates. I'm very excited about being able
to get into a self-driving car and read or
sit on the phone on the way to work. Instead of having to pilot
through Toronto traffic. So I think they represent a really
exciting step forward, but there's still lots to do. We still have lots of interesting challenges to solve
in the self-driving space. Before we have really robust and safe cars that are able to drive themselves 100%
of the time autonomously on our roads. >> We've just launched our own
self-driving car specialization on Coursera. And we'd be really happy to see students
in this specialization also come and learn more about self-driving. It's a wonderful starting point,
it gives you a really nice perspective on the different components of
the self-driving software stack and how it actually works. So everywhere from how it perceives the
environment, how it makes decisions and plans its way through that environment. To how it controls the vehicle and
makes sure it executes those plans safely. So you'll get a nice broad sweep of all
of those things from that specialization. And from there you then
want to become really good and really deep in one particular area,
if you want to work in this domain. Because again, there's so
many layers behind this. There's so much foundational knowledge
you need to start contributing that you can't go wrong. If you find something interesting,
just go after it. And I am sure there'll be companies
that'll need you for this. [MUSIC]