(Music) Before we deep dive
into how AI works, and its various use
cases and applications, let's differentiate some of
the closely related terms and concepts of AI:
artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning,
and neural networks. These terms are sometimes
used interchangeably, but they do not refer
to the same thing. Artificial intelligence
is a branch of computer science dealing with a simulation of
intelligent behavior. AI systems will typically demonstrate
behaviors associated with human intelligence such as planning, learning, reasoning, problem-solving,
knowledge representation, perception, motion, and manipulation, and to a lesser extent social
intelligence and creativity. Machine learning is a subset of AI that uses computer algorithms to analyze data and make intelligent decisions based
on what it has learned, without being
explicitly programmed. Machine learning algorithms
are trained with large sets of data and
they learn from examples. They do not follow
rules-based algorithms. Machine learning is what enables machines to solve
problems on their own and make accurate predictions using the provided data. Deep learning is
a specialized subset of Machine Learning that uses layered neural networks to simulate
human decision-making. Deep learning algorithms
can label and categorize information
and identify patterns. It is what enables AI systems to continuously learn on the job, and improve the quality
and accuracy of results by determining whether
decisions were correct. Artificial neural networks
often referred to simply as neural networks take inspiration from biological neural networks, although they work
quite a bit differently. A neural network in AI is a collection of
small computing units called neurons that take incoming data and learn to make
decisions over time. Neural networks are often
layered deep and are the reason deep learning
algorithms become more efficient as the datasets
increase in volume, as opposed to other machine
learning algorithms that may plateau
as data increases. Now that you have
a broad understanding of the differences between
some key AI concepts, there is one more differentiation that is important to understand, that between artificial
intelligence and data science. Data science is the process
and method for extracting knowledge and insights from large volumes of disparate data. It's an interdisciplinary field
involving mathematics, statistical analysis,
data visualization, machine learning, and more. It's what makes it
possible for us to appropriate information,
see patterns, find meaning from
large volumes of data, and use it to make decisions
that drive business. Data Science can use many of the AI techniques to
derive insight from data. For example, it could use
machine learning algorithms and even deep learning
models to extract meaning and draw
inferences from data. There is some intersection
between AI and data science, but one is not
a subset of the other. Rather, data science
is a broad term that encompasses the entire data
processing methodology. Well, AI includes everything
that allows computers to learn how to solve problems and make
intelligent decisions. Both AI and Data Science
can involve the use of big data that is significantly
large volumes of data. In the next few lessons, the terms machine learning, deep learning, and
neural networks will be discussed in more detail. (Music)