(Music) So what advice would
you give to someone who's looking to get
into a career in AI. Yes absolutely. I had
a bit of an unusual route becoming a data scientist or
an AI specialists myself. I have a background in psychology
so when I was studying, I was basically thinking
of continuing to do academic research and
not going to industry. But at some point in
time, I had a realization that I didn't really want
to become a professor. I didn't really want to teach or do research in
an academic setting. I started looking for
jobs and it was quite difficult because what we see today is sometimes what you'll learn in
university doesn't translate directly into
what companies want. So how do you bridge
that gap exactly? For me, when I was at the time
still in Tokyo, Japan, I didn't have a lot of
resources around me or English speaking resources at the time where I could
develop my skills. So I looked towards
online courses and online courses helped me
practice python, practice R, my data analysis skills through programming and I was able to develop a foundation
in the skill set that was highly sought after by
many different companies. Then from there,
the question became, okay, now I have these skills, these newly developed
skills through these courses that
I've taken online, how do I translate that
to something that I can show and demonstrate to
potential employers? So then the next problem I
had to deal with was, well, how do I demonstrate
that some way? So I created a portfolio of different online
assignment exercises projects to demonstrate that I could do the kinds of
things that they were hoping that I could do to
show my competency. I also when I came back
to Toronto, Canada, I started doing meet ups to
teach at these meet ups, teach R, teach Python,
teach data science. Again, further demonstrate my competencies so that
people could really see that I could do what I
was claiming that I could do. Which was a little bit
difficult because people would just look at
my resume and you see, oh, you have a background psychology, what does that have to do
with data science or AI? So it was hard in
that sense that had to overcome that burden of proof. The final piece of advice
that I would give is connect with fellow local AI specialists. Whether they are data scientists, specialists at
particular field of AI, machine learning researchers,
data engineers, just to get a better sense of what kind of AI
specialists you might be interested in becoming
because today there's so many different kinds
of AI specialists. You could be very technical. You could be doing research on the latest state-of-the-art
algorithms or you could be doing
something a bit more business-oriented, like trying to optimize revenue, maybe some reporting as well. Trying to find ways
to personalize a particular service to each and every kind of user
that you might have. There's different aspects of
AI and I think it's really important to have some clarity into what kind of role and
what kind of job you want. The first step to do that
is to be able to reach out and ask questions to people, who are
already in the field. It's a great way to get a sense
and also maybe even form some connections that
might be meaningful in your career as well. Those
are the four things. Number one is, acquire
skills, wherever you can. Always be open to learning
new things and new skills. Number two is demonstrate your capabilities through
projects, exercises. Something that you
can share online. Even blog posts and articles. Number three, if you can
teach at meet ups or maybe even more ideally
conferences, so you can demonstrate your
competencies in public. Then number four is going to be try to connect with
local experts or local specialists who are already in the field
so you can get a better sense,
what that career kind of road map might
look like for you. (Music)