(Music) My latest poll of top cities for AI,
which is primarily myself just looking at what's coming through my own inbox in
terms of opportunities, it's fairly widespread. Actually there are a lot of opportunities
in a lot of different places. So there's of course the San Francisco Bay
area, which continues to be a hotbed for
startups in AI and robotics, and I think will continue to develop,
there's Boston in the United States which also
has a large number of startups, there's Seattle. Then here in Canada,
we've been doing a great job in both Toronto and Montreal,
of actually developing quite a robust and thriving AI ecosystem
that I think is going to also continue to develop and grow.
So I think we're quite excited about that. Then farther afield there
are a number of locations in Europe, Asia, some opportunities in China certainly,
China and India as well, absolutely. So if you're located
somewhere next to a major city center, I think in any of these areas,
you're well-positioned to to launch your AI career.
Toronto is exploding. It's been amazing to watch and be a part of.
We have Geoffrey Hinton obviously one of the three pillars
of the Turing Award for major contributions in deep learning,
and the whole Vector Institute and ecosystem has come up
around the wonderful progress that came out of
the University of Toronto over the last few decades.
So what we're seeing is wonderful incubators and startups in the area,
investing heavily in AI technology and capabilities, we're seeing large companies bringing in research
labs and putting those right next to the university,
and we're seeing a wonderful amount of funding coming in for research
specifically in AI in Toronto. So I think we're competitive with any of
the best places to learn and work on AI, in the world.
I think Canada is actually doing very well. We've done an excellent job overall in terms
of centralizing some really fantastic AI talents. So in Toronto and Montreal in
particular and also in Vancouver, but Vancouver, Edmonton,
a number of different cities in Canada, have really become very strong AI centers.
They continue to grow and we're attracting a lot of great AI talents,
and I believe that will just continue. So Canada is shaping up to be
a great place to come and do AI research and work in AI. (Music)