(Music) Some of the most common application areas
of AI include natural language processing, speech, and computer vision.
Now, let's look at each of these in turn. Humans have the most advanced method of
communication which is known as natural language. While humans can use computers to send
voice and text messages to each other, computers do not innately
know how to process natural language. Natural language processing is a subset of
artificial intelligence that enables computers to understand the meaning of human
language. Natural language processing uses machine learning
and deep learning algorithms to
discern a word's semantic meaning. It does this by deconstructing sentences grammatically,
relationally, and structurally and understanding the context of use.
For instance, based on the context of a conversation, NLP can determine if the word
"Cloud" is a reference to cloud computing or the mass of
condensed water vapor floating in the sky. NLP systems might also be able
to understand intent and emotion, such as whether you're asking a question out
of frustration, confusion, or irritation.
Understanding the real intent of the user's language,
NLP systems draw inferences through a broad array of linguistic models and algorithms.
Natural language processing is broken down into
many subcategories related to audio and visual tasks.
For computers to communicate in natural language, they need to be able to convert speech into
text, so communication is more natural and easy
to process. They also need to be able to convert text-to-speech,
so users can interact with computers without the requirement to stare at a screen.
The older iterations of speech-to-text technology require programmers to go
through tedious process of discovering and codifying
the rules of classifying and converting voice samples into text.
With neural networks, instead of coding the rules,
you provide voice samples and their corresponding text.
The neural network finds the common patterns among the pronunciation
of words and then learns to map
new voice recordings to their corresponding texts.
These advances in speech-to-text technology are the reason we have real time transcription.
Google uses AI-powered speech-to-text in there Call Screen feature to
handle scam calls and show you the text of the person speaking in real time.
YouTube uses this to provide automatic closed captioning.
The flip side of speech-to-text is text-to-speech also known as speech synthesis.
In the past, the creation of a voice model required hundreds of hours of
coding. Now, with the help of neural networks,
synthesizing human voice has become possible. First, a neural network ingests numerous samples
of a person's voice until it can tell whether
a new voice sample belongs to the same person. Then, a second neural network
generates audio data and runs it through the first network to see if it
validates it as belonging to the subject. If it does not, the generator corrects
its sample and reruns it through the classifier. The two networks repeat the process
until they generate samples that sound natural. Companies use AI-powered voice synthesis to
enhance customer experience and give their
brands their unique voice. In the medical field,
this technology is helping ALS patients regain their true voice instead of using a computerized
voice. The field of computer vision focuses on
replicating parts of the complexity of the human visual system,
and enabling computers to identify and process objects in images and videos,
in the same way humans do. Computer vision is one of the technologies
that enables the digital world to interact with the physical
world. The field of computer vision has
taken great leaps in recent years and surpasses humans in tasks related
to detecting and labeling objects, thanks to advances in deep learning and neural
networks. This technology enables self-driving cars
to make sense of their surroundings. It plays a vital role in
facial recognition applications allowing computers to match images of
people's faces to their identities. It also plays a crucial role
in augmented and mixed reality. The technology that allows
computing devices such as smartphones, tablets, and smart glasses to overlay and embed
virtual objects on real-world imagery. Online photo libraries like Google Photos,
use computer vision to detect objects and classify images by the type of content they
contain. (Music)