[MUSIC] While Machine Learning is a subset
of Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning is a specialized
subset of Machine Learning. Deep Learning layers algorithms
to create a Neural Network, an artificial replication of the structure
and functionality of the brain, enabling AI systems to continuously learn
on the job and improve the quality and accuracy of results. This is what enables these systems to
learn from unstructured data such as photos, videos, and audio files. Deep Learning, for example, enables natural language understanding
capabilities of AI systems, and allows them to work out the context
and intent of what is being conveyed. Deep learning algorithms do not
directly map input to output. Instead, they rely on several
layers of processing units. Each layer passes its output to
the next layer, which processes it and passes it to the next. The many layers is why
it’s called deep learning. When creating deep learning algorithms,
developers and engineers configure the number of layers
and the type of functions that connect the outputs of each layer
to the inputs of the next. Then they train the model by providing
it with lots of annotated examples. For instance, you give a deep learning
algorithm thousands of images and labels that correspond to
the content of each image. The algorithm will run the those examples
through its layered neural network, and adjust the weights of the variables
in each layer of the neural network to be able to detect the common patterns that
define the images with similar labels. Deep Learning fixes one of
the major problems present in older generations of learning algorithms. While the efficiency and performance of machine learning
algorithms plateau as the datasets grow, deep learning algorithms continue to
improve as they are fed more data. Deep Learning has proven to be
very efficient at various tasks, including image captioning,
voice recognition and transcription, facial recognition, medical imaging,
and language translation. Deep Learning is also one of the main
components of driverless cars. [MUSIC]