[MUSIC] Can you talk about some of
the applications of AI? >> There's all kind of different
applications, obviously, there's healthcare, there's finance. The one that's closest to my heart,
of course, is robotics and automation. Where the AI technologies really help
us to improve our abilities to perceive the environment around the robot and to make plans in unpredictable
environments as they're changing. >> There's a great book out by an author,
it was Kelvin Kelly, and he is an editor for the Wired magazine,
he's written a great book about technologies that are going to
be changing shaping our world, specifically 12 technologies. And he's got a fantastic definition in the
book about specifically how AI is going to permeate our everyday life and it's
all summarized in one excellent quote. So he says that the business cases for the next 10,000 startups
are easy to predict, I have x and I will add AI to my x. The way I understand that
is it's basically a notion that AI in one shape, way or
form, in any shape or form, is going to permeate every
aspect of human endeavor. Everything we do, everything we
touch is going to be enhanced by AI. We have great benefits from taking
any device, any machine, and make it just a little bit smarter. The benefit of that is just
adding a bit of smarts to it, a bit of intelligence to it is
exponential in its benefit. >> So we work a lot with some
really fun applications of AI. We do a couple of different
things in the lab that I run. We work on self-driving vehicles as one
aspect, so autonomy for self-driving. Which requires a lot of AI for
the vision systems, for the navigational intelligence, for the planning and
control aspects of the car, we do that. And we also have a large research program
in what are called collaborative robotics, or cobots. So robots that are designed to work in and
around and with people. And that presents a lot of challenges,
because we want the robots to act intelligently and to interface
with humans in a way that is natural. And that requires understanding how people
behave, which requires intelligence. In addition to those,
there are a myriad of other applications, drug discovery, medical treatments for
cancer and other diseases. So a bunch of extremely
exciting applications. >> I mean I think the general use of AI so far has been taking large data sets,
and making sense of them. And doing some sort of processing
with that data in real time. That's what we've been doing, and that's what we've seen most effective,
in terms of creating some sort of larger scale impact in healthcare
beyond just having a siloed device. And we've been seeing
that across the board, across the whole healthcare spectrum. >> We use AI all the time, and a lot of
the times we're not even aware of it. We use AI every time we type in
a search query on a search engine, every time we use our GPS. Or every time we use some kind
of voice recognition system. >> I like to focus on
a particular segment of AI, if that's okay, around computer vision. Because it's just particularly
fascinating to me. Now, when we think of computer vision,
they're looking at AI in ways to help augment, or to help automate or to help
train computers to do something that's already very difficult
to train humans to do. Like when it comes to the airport,
trying to find weapons within luggage through the X-ray scanner,
now that could be difficult to do. No matter how much you train someone
that can be very difficult to identify. But with computer vision that can
help to automate, help to augment, help to flag, certain X-ray images so
that maybe even humans can just take a look at a filtered set of images,
not all of the images right? So computer vision is very disruptive. And so there's many ways in which computer
vision can really help to augment the capabilities of humans in
lots of different industries. >> Now I mean applications of
AI are really all around us. There's no limit to really what we're
doing with artificial intelligence. When you do practically anything on any
technology, you're most probably using some form of what we call machine
learning or artificial intelligence. For example, when you check your email. Doing something as simple
as checking your email. Spam filtering has been done for
years with machine learning technology. More recently, Google came out with their features that
enable you to do smart email compositions. So you can actually have text written for you on the fly as you're
writing your email. Your subjects are automatically written
as well, it'll recommend to you who you should be sending the email to,
see if you missed someone. All of these things are powered
by machine learning. But some of the main areas where I believe
machine learning technology can make an impact are the fields of
health care and education. [MUSIC]