(Music) So, can you talk
about advice for people who want to get into AI,
especially the teenagers like you or other students were fascinated by technology
and AI. So really what I believe, first of all,
is I mean I've seen a lot of misconceptions about AI, really wherever I
go. Whenever people ask me,
"How can I get into the field of machine learning or AI?"
There are lots of misconceptions, they feel like machine learning has its own
independent, isolated subject, and if I learn it,
I can go ahead and implement machine learning algorithms with these things.
But really if you think about it, machine learning is just another algorithm
in the toolbox of algorithms, when it comes to
programming. Albeit in some cases, it can be
much more powerful than other algorithms, and then on a very fundamental level,
it is another algorithm. So before you get into the field of machine
learning, before you get into the field of AI,
it's very important that you understand how to code.
Since machine learning is relatively complex technology,
having a very advanced knowledge of how computers work; how exactly coding works.
Then even sometimes a back-ends behind compilers, really does help you on your journey of
learning how to code machine learning algorithms. The reason I say this is because machine learning
isn't just a regular algorithm that you implement, its not just path finding
or search or something of that sort. It's special because it
requires intense hardware acceleration. It requires you to understand
at least a little bit of the calculus that goes behind backpropagation.
All of this is necessary to understand the fundamental workings of machine learning
and AI. So really to summarize
what I'd recommend is first of all, you should be passionate about technology
itself. If you're not passionate about
technology, machine learning technology, it really isn't something that you should
go and work towards. Then from there, once you know that you're
passionate about it, you want to do it. Then go ahead and start off by
learning concepts in the field of technology. Learn how to code in languages like Python,
Julia as a new language, SWIFT because of the new SWIFT for TensorFlow
project. Then from there, go ahead and learn a little
bit at least of the actual math behind neural networks.
I mean, I remember when I stumbled upon Watson, that was the first time I ever heard of machine
learning. When I went from Watson to custom neural networks,
the first thing I did is I actually drew a small neural network on paper,
and in the backpropagation, manually to understand how exactly weights
are updated, how a loss values work, all these sorts of
things. Once you have that fundamental understanding,
then you go ahead to implement those neural networks from scratch and your
languages. Then once you have
a good idea of how it works, once you practice. Once you learn by example,
then you're finally ready to go ahead and use different libraries,
use different toolkits to enable you to rapidly prototype and build applications
in the field of machine learning. So that's a very very high level view point,
that I'd say to get into machine learning, but of course,
there are better ways and more intuitive ways to get into machine learning
as well. For example, Watson, if you take a look at
how it provides its APIs on the cloud,
you don't need to understand any of the workings behind machine learning to use
Watson, and at the same time,
you can still leverage all those powerful capabilities,
the language translator. Lets you use practically state of the art,
neural machine translation techniques, and even train your own models without having
to understand a single clue
behind what goes behind the models. So being able to start off with a toolkit
like Watson, getting a good idea of
both programming and machine learning at once, what machine learning is and isn't capable
of. Then getting to the custom math, is another
great way. (Music)