Welcome to understanding
bias in AI. In this video, you will learn about bias in
the context of AI. You will find out how bias can emerge in AI, how bias
can impact AI's outcomes, and how to begin mitigating
potential bias in AI. So bias and artificial intelligence is
all about unwanted behaviors. Where AI systems that are used in
consequential decision making tasks, whether it's in lending,
hiring, even in criminal justice, gives systematic disadvantages to
certain groups and individuals. So an example would be an AI system
that's helping make decisions on who should receive extra
preventative healthcare and it gives more of that to white
people than black people. Or another example is
hiring algorithm where the AI system actually
gives more qualified men a chance to interview
than qualified women. There's actually many
sources of this happening. So when we talk about AI or machine
learning systems, they're trained on historical decisions that human
decision makers have made in the past. So because of that there's actually
the possibility that the human decision makers in the past were implicitly or
explicitly biased themselves and so that's reflected in the training
data through prejudice. Second is through
the sampling of the data. So it's possible that certain
groups are overrepresented or underrepresented in a particular data set. Another aspect that sometimes
overlooked is in the data processing or data preparation phase in
the data science project. So even the fact that I do some
feature engineering can lead to additional biases that might
not have been there before. So an example of that is coming
back to our healthcare example. So if I look at healthcare
costs separately as a feature. So inpatient, outpatient or emergency room, then there's much less bias that's
introduced against African Americans. Whereas if combine all of those
into a single feature is actually much more biased against
African Americans. And then there's also the question of
how am I even posing the problem itself? Maybe I'm predicting the wrong thing. So if I'm trying to predict
criminality where future crimes then arrests is not
a good way to look at that because the police arrest
people more often where they're more active in
certain neighborhoods and being arrested is not
the same as being guilty. So, as we talked about, there's many
sources of those biases and so we need to take actions that
help undo those sources. So one important aspect of it is even
recognizing that there are biases. So having a team of people who
have diverse lived experiences is one way to recognize those harms and other
sort of biases that might be in play. Another thing is to search for data sets that actually have
your your biases themselves. So that's another way
to counteract biases. And then finally,
there's technical approaches. So if we have a machine learning
model that we're training on data that is biased, we can actually
introduce extra constraints or other sort of statistical measures
in order to mitigate biases. So we've developed several
such algorithms and many of them are available in
the open source toolkit in AI fairness. Our goal is to ensure technology
makes a positive impact on society. I am proud to be a member
of the IBM AI Ethics Board to focus on conscious
inclusion through Good Tech. Our AI Ethics board represents
a cross section of diverse IBM-ers who address
in research eliminating bias while establishing
standards in this space. A few ways in which IBM-ers use AI and
data skills is by leveraging our technology to
develop assets to address bias. Also to address inclusive language in
tech terminology. This is around our
Language Matters initiative. And to ensure testing of our solutions
to decrease the probability and minimize the potential for bias. In D & I, we use AI and data analytics and
insights to inform decision support and address as well as minimize
the potential for bias. In HR, this means enhancing decision support
that can inform pay and retention, hiring and
promotion decisions. Using AI and data insights plays an important role to
assist in our compliance requirements and proactive actions that
we take around the globe.