[MUSIC] Welcome to AI ethics, governance, and ESG. In this video, you will learn about what
AI governance is and what it accomplishes, what ESG is and what it accomplishes, and how governance and
ESG connect to AI ethics? Governance is the organization's act
of governing through its corporate instructions, staff, its processes and
systems to direct, evaluate, and monitor, and to take corrective
action throughout the AI lifecycle to provide assurance that an AI system
is operating as an organization intends it to, and as stakeholders expected to, and
as may be required by relevant regulation. The objective of governance is to
deliver trustworthy AI by establishing requirements for accountability,
responsibility and oversight. Governance provides many benefits,
including, for example, trust. When AI activities
are aligned with values organizations can build systems
that are transparent, fair and trustworthy, boosting client
satisfaction and brand reputation. Another benefit is efficiency, when AI
activities are standardized and optimized development can happen with greater
efficiency, accelerating time to market. And compliance, when AI activities
are already managed and monitored, adjusting them to align with new and
forthcoming industry regulations and legal requirements is
really less cumbersome. The successful governance program takes
into account people, processes, and tools. It clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of people,
in building and managing trustworthy AI, including leaders who will set
policies and establish accountability. It establishes processes, for building, managing, monitoring and
communicating about AI. And it leverages tools to
gain greater visibility and consistency into AI system performance
throughout the AI lifecycle. ESG stands for
environmental social governance, and these are factors that are used to
measure all non financial risks and opportunities at companies. At IBM, that translates into IBM impact,
our strategy and philosophy on ESG. IBM impact is comprised of three pillars, that we believe will create
a more sustainable future. These pillars are environmental impact,
equitable impact, and ethical impact. And we accomplish this by making
a lasting positive impact, in the world in business ethics,
our environment, and in the communities in which we work and
live. The governance aspect of ESG
pertains to creating innovations, policies and
practices that prioritize ethics, trust, transparency and
above all accountability. And AI ethics is a significant aspect
of our governance initiatives. For example,
in 2022 we're aiming to reach 1,000 ecosystem partners trained in tech ethics. This goal matters because we
believe the benefits of AI, should touch the many and
not just the few. And developing a culture of
trustworthy AI must happen everywhere, not just within IBM. We're leading the way in AI ethics as we
aspire to create a more ethical future. [MUSIC]