(Music) Can you talk about AI in action. To give an example of say machine learning in action today, how companies have
actually implemented it, there's one example that I
always love to go back to, and it is the example
of Woodside Energy, a company in the Australia
New Zealand region. Now originally, they actually contacted IBM because they wanted the IBM to be able to create essentially a system
that can understand the different documents and the research that they're
engineers come up with, and have Watson and
understand that, and essentially replace some of the engineers on their team. IBM actually went ahead and build the application
that worked to Watson was able to understand
that unstructured content, but they never ended up replacing
any of their engineers. Instead, they actually ended
up hiring more engineers, because now they realized
that two things. First of all, the barrier of entry for each engineer is now lower and knowledge can now be shared more effectively
among the teams. Because now instead of
research being written and put into an archive drawer where it's never seen again, Watson's ingesting that data, understanding it and providing
it to whoever needs it, whoever Watson thinks
would need that data. So if you imagine in
these TV shows and in these movie scenes as
well, you have sometimes, if someone's looking for
a particular suspect in this particular traffic
intersection or whatnot, if passed through
this intersection, and there's of course
some cameras around. So we have the
security guard maybe, trying to look through
hours and hours, dozens and hundreds
of hours of footage, maybe at 10x speed and find that particular black SUV
or that green car. Then as soon as they find it at the end of the episode
or whatnot, then say aha, we
found that person. But if you had some sort of
computer vision algorithm running on this video for
just the entire time, then you wouldn't have
a need for some person to have to manually watch through hours and
hours of footage. Our specific use case is actually triggering new neural pathways
in the brain to form. As you can imagine, there's a lot of information
that happens there between the connection of how your body functions and
how your brain functions, and what parts of
the brain are damage, what parts of the brain
aren't damaged, and how you're actually moving
the person or how you're triggering certain things
in the human body to happen in order for
new neural pathways to form. So what we've done is actually, we've created massive data sets of information of
how people move, and how that responds to
different areas of the brain. Through that information,
we're able to trigger specific movements
with a robotic device, which in turn creates these neural pathways
to form in the brain, and therefore
recovering the person who suffered
a neurological trauma. (Music)