[MUSIC] What advice would you give to
someone who wants to learn AI, or perhaps even get into a career in AI? >> So I believe artificial intelligence
is going to permeate every sphere of human endeavor. So the first thing I would say is
I would congratulate the person who've chosen to study and
apply AI as having made the right choice. The second part I would say is because
the technology is moving so fast, because we have not yet
discovered what we're going to discover, I think it's really important
to keep an open mind. It's important to keep an open mind and
not get too attached to any particular technology, any particular technique,
any particular implementation. But to really think forward and think outside of the box,
and think about what may, think about the art of the possible,
think about what may come. And the number one advice I would
give is apply what you learn. Don't make it academic, make it practice. >> The first thing I would say is take
a look at a great Coursera course, like this one, and grasp the basics of AI. Get a fundamental lay of the land and understand what is involved in
various types of AI systems. And perhaps find the niche that
you're most interested in. And then, of course,
look at academic programs that can help you to learn more about
that specific area. And for students who are coming up
through high school, for example, I would say definitely spend time
focusing on math and science. Certainly, all disciplines are valuable,
but your knowledge of mathematics and science will certainly pay off
when you're working on AI systems. Because there are tons
of opportunities and you'll need mathematics to really fully
understand how the AI systems operate. So take your mathematics and
your science seriously. And then look at Coursera and
then beyond to other educational programs that can give you the basis you need
to really jump into the industry. >> The field of AI has changed
a lot in the last five years. No longer require a PhD in some
kind of advanced mathematics or know some obscure programming language. You just have to know how to use the
software APIs and understand the problem. For example, you can use Watson, and you just have to understand the problem
and understand how the API works. But you still require some advance
knowledge if you would like to build your own algorithm. >> So artificial intelligence machine
learning, this is a very important field. It is the future of technology. Because it essentially opens up this whole
new world of interaction with computers. A world that so far,
we barely even knew existed. And it enables us to interact with
computers in an implicit way. But what I would say is that while
machine learning technology is important, it's not something that you
can learn in isolation. Machine learning technology is
not its own standalone subject. It's another algorithm in the toolbox
of a plethora of algorithms that programmers will use
in their applications, albeit a much more intelligent or
a much more powerful algorithm than most. But still, it's another algorithm. So before you learn machine
learning technology, it's very important to understand
the actual programming and the technology that goes behind
machine learning technology. Specifically because machine learning
actually requires this kind of next generation of programming,
hardware acceleration, so much more, that regular programming and regular
algorithms don't necessarily require. So I'd really recommend making sure that,
first of all, you are passionate about
technology itself. If you are, continue, learn about
programming, learn about coding, learn how to actually speak
the computer's language. Learn about the computational
thinking behind code. And then go ahead and learn about machine
learning from the very, very basics. Start off with an API like IBM Watson
to help you get an idea of what it's capable of. Then move on to more advanced, custom
techniques and the math behind them. >> So AI is a fascinating field. But it's built on a huge
number of foundational domains or foundational fields of study. So you really need to
know your mathematics, you really need to know your probability
statistics, your optimization. And you have to be able to program. You have to be able to take advantage of
the tools, that are out there to train these networks and
understand how they work. So AI is really a broad field that
requires a lot of specialists and a lot of specialization in a lot of areas. So one of the best things, you
can do is get started quickly. Start playing with some simple tasks. Try to identify digits or
try to find cats on Internet pictures, right, things like this. These are wonderful challenges, that can
get you going in understanding what you need to learn about that field. >> Getting into AI now, is like getting
into anything to do with Internet, 20, 30 years ago. It's kind of the Renascence
of software right now. It's possible now,
it wasn't possible ten years ago. We have the computing technology. We have the computing power. We have the knowledge. And this is a field that will only grow. So I think you need to get in yesterday. [MUSIC]